# PILOT RESEARCH PROJECT – POLICE KILLINGS IN US DURING 2015

During these years there have been numerous movements in the US against unjustified police violence which very often led to tragic consequences.
In this paper, we thus want to analyse the social and economic backgrounds that the victims seem to have in common, trying to recover the underlying reasons that have led to such a dramatic result in the last years.
More specifically, we will focus on some variables, such as gender, ethnicity, level of wealth and level of schooling of the victims.
Before doing this, however, it is necessary to make some clarifications regarding the limits of our study and the data sets used.
The main source that was used for our research is a data sets built by the Guardian which, thanks to numerous testimonies, the work of some journalists and some official data provided by the government, has reconstructed the story of the people dead in 2015 due to this cause. Although numerous sources have been crossed for the realization of this project by the Guardian, the number of victims does not reflect the real number of them as many have never been officially declared by the police as deaths due to this cause. Although, we do not have a data set that includes all the victims, we still have over 1000 cases available that will allow us to have insights, not on the spread of the phenomenon quantitatively in absolute terms, but mostly on the economic and social background recurring among the victims of the sample.
Moreover, parts of our studies will also refer to another data set, for which we leave the references in the appendix, that is an elaboration and an extension of the Guardian's data set as more variables are specified, trough data crossing with the available data from Census Official American website. Unfortunately, in this last case the sample is reduced in size, as it was updated on 2 June 2015, so the killings that took place after that date are neglected, hence it only covers the first half of the year 2015.
As a last remark we also mention that, before using the data set in R, we have cleaned it deleting the rows where NA entries were present.
Note: in the work it will be mentioned when the larger data set is used, with an asterisk (*), so in general it can be safely assumed that we are referring to the smaller one.
